shared/prompts/create-rule.md, before:

# Purpose

Produce an implementation-focused rule file for a specified technology so automated code generation follows proven patterns and avoids anti-patterns.

## Variables

| Token/Flag        | Type                     | Description                                             |
| ----------------- | ------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------- |
| `$RULE_FILE_PATH` | positional #1 (REQUIRED) | Destination path for the generated implementation rule. |

## Instructions

- ALWAYS ground rules in authoritative sources (official docs → style guides → production case studies → community patterns).
- Focus exclusively on implementation guidance—omit installation or scaffolding steps.
- Include actionable code examples for every rule section; ensure examples compile or are syntactically correct.
- Highlight anti-patterns with ❌ and provide preferred alternatives with ✅.
- After writing, verify the file matches the required structure and is free of placeholders.

## Workflow

1. Research implementation practices
   - Collect documentation excerpts, style guides, and mature examples.
   - Note security, performance, and error-handling considerations specific to the technology.
2. Draft rule file contents
   - Structure must include:
     - Header with technology name and applicable glob patterns.
     - Sections: Core Implementation Rules, Security Rules, Performance Rules, Error Handling Rules, Anti-Patterns.
   - Provide code blocks demonstrating required patterns and forbidden examples.
   - Use imperative language (“Always”, “Never”, “Must”).
3. Write rule file
   - Save markdown content to `RULE_FILE_PATH`.
4. Quality review
   - Re-read file for completeness, accuracy, and clarity.
   - Confirm examples align with current best practices and are consistent with earlier sections.
5. Summarize outcome
   - Report the rule sections, number of rules per section, and any references used.

## Output

```md
# RESULT

- Summary: Implementation rules for <TECHNOLOGY_NAME> created.

## FILE

- Path: <somefilepath>/rules/<slug>.md
- Sections: <suitable-related-sections> e.g. Core, Security, Performance, Error Handling, Anti-Patterns
- Examples Included: <yes/no>

## REFERENCES

- <Reference 1>
- <Reference 2>
```

## Examples

```bash
# Create React implementation rules
/create-rule react

# Generate Prisma ORM implementation guidance
/create-rule prisma
```

Commit message:

feat(prompts): unify @TOKEN variables + bullet layout; omit empty Variable sections in renders; add prompt lint; update system templates; convert shared prompts; align Codex example

shared/prompts/create-rule.md, after:

# Purpose

Produce an implementation-focused rule file for a specified technology so automated code generation follows proven patterns and avoids anti-patterns.

## Variables

### Required

- @RULE_FILE_PATH = $1 — destination path for the generated implementation rule

### Optional (derived from $ARGUMENTS)

- (none)

### Derived (internal)

- (none)

## Instructions

- ALWAYS ground rules in authoritative sources (official docs → style guides → production case studies → community patterns).
- Focus exclusively on implementation guidance—omit installation or scaffolding steps.
- Include actionable code examples for every rule section; ensure examples compile or are syntactically correct.
- Highlight anti-patterns with ❌ and provide preferred alternatives with ✅.
- After writing, verify the file matches the required structure and is free of placeholders.

## Workflow

1. Research implementation practices
   - Collect documentation excerpts, style guides, and mature examples.
   - Note security, performance, and error-handling considerations specific to the technology.
2. Draft rule file contents
   - Structure must include:
     - Header with technology name and applicable glob patterns.
     - Sections: Core Implementation Rules, Security Rules, Performance Rules, Error Handling Rules, Anti-Patterns.
   - Provide code blocks demonstrating required patterns and forbidden examples.
   - Use imperative language (“Always”, “Never”, “Must”).
3. Write rule file
   - Save markdown content to `RULE_FILE_PATH`.
4. Quality review
   - Re-read file for completeness, accuracy, and clarity.
   - Confirm examples align with current best practices and are consistent with earlier sections.
5. Summarize outcome
   - Report the rule sections, number of rules per section, and any references used.

## Output

```md
# RESULT

- Summary: Implementation rules for <TECHNOLOGY_NAME> created.

## FILE

- Path: <somefilepath>/rules/<slug>.md
- Sections: <suitable-related-sections> e.g. Core, Security, Performance, Error Handling, Anti-Patterns
- Examples Included: <yes/no>

## REFERENCES

- <Reference 1>
- <Reference 2>
```

## Examples

```bash
# Create React implementation rules
/create-rule react

# Generate Prisma ORM implementation guidance
/create-rule prisma
```
