shared/prompts/templates/claude-code-command.md, before:

<!-- template format for claude-code custom slash command -->
<!-- Docs: https://docs.claude.com/en/docs/claude-code/slash-commands -->

<!--
FRONTMATTER (define these in real YAML frontmatter when instantiating):
  allowed-tools: Bash(git add:*), Bash(git status:*), Bash(git commit:*), Bash(git log:*), Bash(git diff:*); Read(./path|glob); Write(./path|glob); Edit(./path|glob); MultiEdit(./path|glob); NotebookEdit(./path|glob); NotebookRead(./path|glob); Grep; Glob; Task; TodoWrite; WebFetch; WebSearch; Write; MCP tools by exact name: mcp__server, mcp__server__tool (no wildcards)
  argument-hint: [type] [scope] [message]
  description: One-line summary for /help
  model: claude-3-5-haiku-20241022 (inherits if omitted)
  disable-model-invocation: true | false (default false)

ARGUMENTS (expansion rules):
  $1..$9: expand to first nine positional args
  $ARGUMENTS: expands to all args joined by a single space
  $$: preserved literally (emit a dollar sign)
  quoted: wrap an argument in double quotes to include spaces

TOOLS (referenceable in allowed-tools):
  list: Bash | Edit | Glob | Grep | MultiEdit | NotebookEdit | NotebookRead | Read | Task | TodoWrite | WebFetch | WebSearch | Write
  mcp rules: mcp__github | mcp__github__get_issue (no wildcards)

SHELL OUTPUT INJECTION:
  !`<bash>` injects command output into context (requires a matching Bash(...) rule in allowed-tools)

FILE REFERENCES:
  @path includes file or directory contents in context (e.g., @src, @README.md)
-->

---

allowed-tools:
argument-hint: [type] [scope] [message]
description: One-line summary for /help
model: claude-3-5-haiku-20241022 (inherits if omitted)

---

# Purpose

State the objective in one sentence. Be direct and outcome-focused.

## Variables

- Define inputs and their sources (e.g., from $ARGUMENTS or environment).
- Example: TYPE, SCOPE, MESSAGE

## Environment checks (optional)

- Python available: !`python --version`
- Target path readable: !`test -r "${1:-.}" && echo target-ok || echo target-missing`
- Imports resolve (when using analyzer scripts): !`PYTHONPATH="$SCRIPTS_ROOT" python -c "import core.base; print('env OK')"`
- Runner help (optional): !`PYTHONPATH="$SCRIPTS_ROOT" python -m core.cli.run_analyzer --help | head -n 5`
- Script resolution (when needed): resolve `SCRIPT_PATH` from project → user → prompt; then set `SCRIPTS_ROOT="$(cd "$(dirname \"$SCRIPT_PATH\")/../.." && pwd)"`.
- Permissions alignment: ensure `allowed-tools` include any Bash patterns used above (e.g., `Bash(which python:*)`, `Bash(ls:*)`, `Bash(find:*)`, `Bash(python -c:*)`, `Bash(python -m core.cli.run_analyzer:*)`).

## Instructions

- Use short, imperative bullets.
- Call out IMPORTANT constraints explicitly.
- Avoid verbosity; prefer concrete actions over descriptions.

## Workflow

1. Step-by-step list of actions (each step starts with a verb).
2. Validate prerequisites and guard-rails early.
3. Perform the core task deterministically.
4. Save/emit artifacts and verify results.

## Output

Provide results in this exact structure:

```md
# RESULT

- Summary: <one line>

## DETAILS

- What changed
- Where it changed
- How to verify
```

## Report

List concise facts to confirm completion (IDs, paths, counts, statuses).

## Examples (optional)

```bash
# 1) Minimal invocation with positional arguments
/<command-name> feat api "add pagination"

# 2) With explicit target path as $1 (used by Environment checks)
/<command-name> ./services/api

# 3) Reference files/directories for extra context
/<command-name> "feat core" @src @README.md

# 4) When analyzer scripts are required, and discovery fails
#    You will be prompted to provide a scripts directory. Supply the path, e.g.:
#    /Users/you/.claude/scripts/analyzers/architecture/

# 5) Example frontmatter allowed-tools to support the above
# ---
# allowed-tools: |
#   Bash(which python:*), Bash(ls:*), Bash(find:*),
#   Bash(python -c:*), Bash(python -m core.cli.run_analyzer:*),
#   Bash(git add:*), Bash(git status:*), Bash(git commit:*), Bash(git log:*), Bash(git diff:*),
#   Read(./**), Edit(./src/**), Write(./generated/**), Grep, Glob, Read, Write
# description: One-line summary for /help
# ---
```

Commit message:

templates: finalize claude/opencode/codex templates after review (sections, examples, top comments)

shared/prompts/templates/claude-code-command.md, after:

<!-- template format for claude-code custom slash command -->
<!-- Docs: https://docs.claude.com/en/docs/claude-code/slash-commands -->

<!--
FRONTMATTER (define these in real YAML frontmatter when instantiating):
  allowed-tools: Bash(git add:*), Bash(git status:*), Bash(git commit:*), Bash(git log:*), Bash(git diff:*); Read(./path|glob); Write(./path|glob); Edit(./path|glob); MultiEdit(./path|glob); NotebookEdit(./path|glob); NotebookRead(./path|glob); Grep; Glob; Task; TodoWrite; WebFetch; WebSearch; Write; MCP tools by exact name: mcp__server, mcp__server__tool (no wildcards)
  argument-hint: [type] [scope] [message]
  description: One-line summary for /help
  model: claude-3-5-haiku-20241022 (inherits if omitted)
  disable-model-invocation: true | false (default false)

ARGUMENTS (expansion rules):
  $1..$9: expand to first nine positional args
  $ARGUMENTS: expands to all args joined by a single space
  $$: preserved literally (emit a dollar sign)
  quoted: wrap an argument in double quotes to include spaces

TOOLS (referenceable in allowed-tools):
  list: Bash | Edit | Glob | Grep | MultiEdit | NotebookEdit | NotebookRead | Read | Task | TodoWrite | WebFetch | WebSearch | Write
  mcp rules: mcp__github | mcp__github__get_issue (no wildcards)

SHELL OUTPUT INJECTION:
  !`<bash>` injects command output into context (requires a matching Bash(...) rule in allowed-tools)

FILE REFERENCES:
  @path includes file or directory contents in context (e.g., @src, @README.md)
-->

---

allowed-tools:
argument-hint: [type] [scope] [message]
description: One-line summary for /help
model: claude-3-5-haiku-20241022 (inherits if omitted)

---

# Purpose

State the objective in one sentence. Be direct and outcome-focused.

## Environment checks (optional)

workflow should immediately exit if any of these conditions fail

- Python available: !`python --version`
- Target path readable: !`test -r "${1:-.}" && echo target-ok || echo target-missing`
- Imports resolve (when using analyzer scripts): !`PYTHONPATH="$SCRIPTS_ROOT" python -c "import core.base; print('env OK')"`
- Runner help (optional): !`PYTHONPATH="$SCRIPTS_ROOT" python -m core.cli.run_analyzer --help | head -n 5`
- Script resolution (when needed): resolve `SCRIPT_PATH` from project → user → prompt; then set `SCRIPTS_ROOT="$(cd "$(dirname \"$SCRIPT_PATH\")/../.." && pwd)"`.
- Permissions alignment: ensure `allowed-tools` include any Bash patterns used above (e.g., `Bash(which python:*)`, `Bash(ls:*)`, `Bash(find:*)`, `Bash(python -c:*)`, `Bash(python -m core.cli.run_analyzer:*)`).

## Variables

- Define inputs and their sources (e.g., from $ARGUMENTS or environment).
- Example: TYPE, SCOPE, MESSAGE

## Instructions

- Use short, imperative bullets.
- Call out IMPORTANT constraints explicitly.
- Avoid verbosity; prefer concrete actions over descriptions.

## Workflow

1. Step-by-step list of actions (each step starts with a verb).
2. Validate prerequisites and guard-rails early.
3. Perform the core task deterministically.
4. Save/emit artifacts and verify results.

## Output

Provide results in this exact structure:

```md
# RESULT

- Summary: <one line>

## DETAILS

- What changed
- Where it changed
- How to verify
```

## Report

List concise facts to confirm completion (IDs, paths, counts, statuses).

## Examples (optional)

```bash
# 1) Minimal invocation with positional arguments
/<command-name> feat api "add pagination"

# 2) With explicit target path as $1 (used by Environment checks)
/<command-name> ./services/api
```
